= equationoftime

Home    :: http://equationoftime.herokuapp.com/
Code    :: https://github.com/DouglasAllen/equationoftime
RDoc    :: http://rubydoc.info/gems/equationoftime/4.1.5/frames
Issues  :: https://github.com/DouglasAllen/equationoftime/issues


== DESCRIPTION:

Calculate Sunrise and Sunset. Now uses native C wrappers.
Lots of examples to play with for learning about Eot.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

* Use GeoLatLng class to set coordinates or set them manually.

== SYNOPSIS:

  $ irb --simple-prompt

        require 'eot'
        eot = Eot.new
        eot.string_eot          # todays eot
        eot.ajd                 # was initialized to noon today ei. jd
        # Try the real AJD
        eot.ajd = DateTime.now.to_time.utc.to_datetime.ajd.to_f

        eot.string_eot          # nothing changes so...
        eot.ma_ta_set           # recalculate ma and ta after initialization
        eot.string_eot          # should be different than before

        # check and set a new address                        
        geo = GeoLatLng.new
        geo.addr
        geo.addr = "houston, tx"     # set new location
        geo.set_coordinates          # set new coordinates
        eot.latitude = geo.lat       # set the Eot class attributes
        eot.longitude = geo.lng

        # Be shure you have the date set right
        eot.ajd = DateTime.new(2014,11,07).to_time.utc.to_datetime.jd.to_f

        eot.ma_ta_set           # recalculate ma and ta after initialization

        eot.sunrise_jd          # the dates sunrise as a jd
        eot.sunset_jd           # the dates sunset as a jd
        eot.sunrise_dt          # the dates sunrise as DateTime
        eot.sunset_dt           # the dates sunset as a DateTime


        eot.ajd += 1            # the days after times can be read
        eot.ma_ta_set           # recalculate ma and ta after initialization 
        eot.ajd = 2451545       # ajd set to 2001-01-01 12:00 
        

== Gem patch:

  $ gem install eot

After realizing this name was available I decided to use it.
It installs the needed requirements as for some reason
gem install equationoftime doesn't always. Hoe hoe hoe!

== REQUIREMENTS:

  $ bundle install

== INSTALL:

  $ bundle exec rake install

== DEVELOPERS:

After checking out the source, run:

  $ bundle exec rake newb

This task will install any missing dependencies, run the tests/specs,
and generate the RDoc.

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2014

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
